---
title: "Computing the multimodal stochastic dynamics of a nanobeam in a viscous fluid"
collection: publications
date: 2024-11-29
venue: 'Journal of Applied Physics'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0241979'
arxivurl: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00258'
# localurl: '../files/papers/barbish2022.pdf'
citation: 'J. Barbish and M. R. Paul, "Computing the multimodal stochastic dynamics of a nanobeam in a viscous fluid" <i>Journal of Applied Physics</i>, vol. 136, no. 23, p. 234502, Dec. 2024.'
---

Abstract: The stochastic dynamics of small elastic objects in fluid are central to many important and emerging technologies. It is now possible to measure and use the higher modes of motion of elastic structures when driven by Brownian motion alone. Although theoretical descriptions exist for idealized conditions, computing the stochastic multimodal dynamics for the complex conditions of experiment is very challenging. We show that this is possible using deterministic finite element calculations with the fluctuation dissipation theorem by exploring the multimodal stochastic dynamics of a doubly-clamped nanobeam. We use a very general, and flexible, finite-element computational approach to quantify the stochastic dynamics of multiple modes simultaneously using only a single deterministic simulation. We include the experimentally relevant features of an intrinsic tension in the beam and the influence of a nearby rigid boundary on the dynamics through viscous fluid interactions. We quantify the stochastic dynamics of the first eleven flexural modes of the beam when immersed in air or water. We compare the numerical results with theory, where possible, and find excellent agreement. We quantify the limitations of the computational approach and describe its range of applicability. These results pave the way for computational studies of the stochastic dynamics of complex 3D elastic structures in a viscous fluid where theoretical descriptions are not available.
